Any int question regarding this book? 
must read java books: head first java, effective java, java performance by scott

C1. Creating and destroying objects
1. Consider static factory methods instead of constructors

2. Consider a builder when faced with many constructor parameters

3. Enforce the singleton property with a private constructor or an enum type

4. Enforce noninstantiability with a private constructor

5. Prefer dependency injection to hardwiring resources

6. Avoid creating unnecessary objects

7. Eliminate obsolete object references
  I got it.
  for example, you implement a stack using an array. you use size to track 
array cells in use.  when a cell no longer used by the stack,  null the object 
stored in the out cells. 

8. Avoid finalizers and cleaners

9. Prefer try-with-resources to try-finally
  I got this new syntax, pretty neat. I used to use try-finally a lot.

C3. Methods common to all objects
==============================
10. Obey the general contract when overriding equals

11. Always override hashCode when you override equals

12. Always override toString

13. Override clone judiciously

14. Consider implementing Comparable


C4. Classes and interfaces
===========
15. Minimize the accessibility of classes and members

16. In public classes, use accessor methods, not public fields

17. Minimize mutability
   understand some

18. Favor composition over inheritance

19. Design and document for inheritance or else prohibit it

20. Prefer interfaces to abstract classes
   read first pass. not quite get it.  skeleton class? why? the only case that abstract class needed. understand that java promotes interface rather than multiple inheritance (which is bad with bloaded classes).  default method of interface?  yes, default method since Jdk8 is allowed. still not quite understand abstract class for skeleton implemenation, what is skeleton impl? 
not easy read.  
 
21. Design interfaces for posterity What is posterity 

22. Use interfaces only to define types

23. Prefer class hierachies to tagged classes

24. Limit source file to a single top-level class

C5. Generics
Item 26. Don't use raw types

C6. Enums and Annotations
Item 34. Use enums instead of int constants
Item 41. Use marker interfaces to define types

C7. Lambdas and streams
Item 42. Prefer lambdas to anonymous classes
Item 43. Prefer method references to lambdas
Item 44. Favor the use of standard function interfaces
Item 45. Use streams judicously
Item 46. Prefer side-effect-free functions in streams
Item 47. Prefer collection to stream as a return type
Item 48. Use caution when making streams parallel


C8. Methods
Item 49 --- check parameters for validity.  @return ... @throws ...Exception
   mod 
  null check?   

Item 54: Return empty collections or arrays, not nulls
Item 55: Return optionals judiciously. Optional, wow
Item 56: Write doc comments for all exposed API elemets

C9 General Programming
Item 57: Minimize the scope of local variables
Item 58: Prefer for-each loops to traditional for loops
   for (E i: A) 
	for (D j: B) 
	  i + "," + j

Item 59: Know and use the libraries
As of Java 7, you should no longer use Random. For most uses, the random
number generator of choice is now ThreadLocalRandom. It produces
higher quality random numbers, and it’s very fast. On my machine, it is 3.6 times
faster than Random. For fork join pools and parallel streams, use
SplittableRandom.
java.util java.lang java.io

Item 60: Avoid float and double if exact answers are required

Item 61: prefer primitive types to boxed primitives
  boxing and unboxing is slow, O1 == O2 is identity check, not value equal check for objects

Item 62: Avoid strings where other types are more appropriate

Item 63: Beware the performance of string concatenation

Item 64: refer to objects by their interfaces

Item 65: Prefer interfaces to reflection

Item 66: Use native methods judiciously
Item 67: Optimize judiciously
Item 68: Adhere to generally accepted naming conventions

C10. Exceptions
Item 69. Use exceptions only for exceptional conditions
Item 70. Use checked exceptions for recoverable conditions and runtime exceptions
Item 71. Avoid unnecessary use of checked exceptions
Item 72. Favor the use of standard exceptions
Item 73. Throw exceptions appropriate to the abstraction
Item 74. Document all exceptions thrown by each method
Item 75. Include failure-capture information in detail messages
Item 76. Strive for failure atomicity
Item 77. Dont' ignore exceptions

C11. Concurrency
Item 78. Synchronize access to shared mutable data
Item 79. Avoid excessive synchronization
Item 80. Prefer executors, tasks and streams to threads
Item 81. Prefer concurrency utilities to wait and notify
Item 82. Document thread safety
Item 83. Use lazy initialization judiciously
Item 84. Dont' depend on the thread scheduler

C12. Serialization



Item 60. Aovid float and double if exact answers are required

