The four pillars for OOP are Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism.

Abstraction : Abstraction is the process of showing only essential/necessary features of an entity/object to the outside world and hide the other irrelevant information. For example to open your TV we only have a power button, It is not required to understand how infra-red waves are getting generated in TV remote control.

Encapsulation : Encapsulation means wrapping up data and member function (Method) together into a single unit i.e. class. Encapsulation automatically achieve the concept of data hiding providing security to data by making the variable as private and expose the property to access the private data which would be public.

Inheritance : The ability of creating a new class from an existing class. Inheritance is when an object acquires the property of another object. Inheritance allows a class (subclass) to acquire the properties and behavior of another class (super-class). It helps to reuse, customize and enhance the existing code. So it helps to write a code accurately and reduce the development time.

Polymorphism: Polymorphism is derived from 2 Greek words: poly and morphs. The word "poly" means many and "morphs" means forms. So polymorphism means "many forms". A subclass can define its own unique behavior and still share the same functionalities or behavior of its parent/base class. A subclass can have their own behavior and share some of its behavior from its parent class not the other way around. A parent class cannot have the behavior of its subclass.

polymorphism:
allow us to perform a single action in different ways
Compile time polymorphism, through method overloading
  typical use case of overload,  int add(int a, int b), double add(double a, double b)
Runtime polymorphism, through method overriding
  derived class redefines a method. In contrast to overloading, redefine the method with the same parameter&return signature


association
composition vs. aggregation 
  both object A is part of object B.  Composition the part can not exist without the whole. Aggregation no such requirements
  heart and body -- composition, book with lib tag and library --- composition,   employee and company, aggregation

polymorphism
  overloading --- function share name but different signatures(parameter and return types)
  override --
  dynamic binding and static binding

inheritance
multiple level
multiple inheritance
interface inheritance

encapsulation 
  data and methods together
  access control, private, protect, public,


in python I found OOP helps with encapsulation, program with few number of global variables 
put related functions together and organize code better
constructor with many parameters,  builder 
how to shape a class, what functions and features to put into a class

dependence  injection

design pattern

help developers create and maintain a codebase that is strong but flexible to grow and change with minimal difficulty.

The five principles are as follows:

S – Single Responsibility Principle (SRP)
O – Open Closed Principle (OCP)
L – Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP)
I – Interface Segregation Principle (ISP)
D – Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP)

S -- a class does 1 single thing

O -- open for extention, close for modification.  add new features buy extending a class, implement interface
  for instance get area of all shapes,  new shape extend shape base class, implement its own getArea method

L --  base class can be replaced with derived class

I -- lean interface, not interface that contracts many methods

D ---


